content/post/2024-stalker-cosplay/index.md, before:

---
title: STALKER // PAX West 2024
description: "In celebration of STALKER 2 finally releasing! Or, being close to release at least."
slug: stalker-cosplay
date: 2024-09-05T22:02:08.183Z
image: cover.jpg
tags:
    - stalker
    - cosplay
    - overview
    - loadout
categories:
    - cosplay
---
## Intro
I had a blast making this costume; it wasn't the most technical project, but it was really fulfilling on a personal level and got to bring one of my characters to life.

I plan on doing individual logs about the kit props and their creation process. I'm in the process of editing the build videos since everything came together kind of last minute, but I didn't want to hold off on making this post!

### What is "STALKER"?
![STALKER: Call of Pripyat, Promotional Art (©GSC Game World)](image.png)
> The name "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." is a backronym for Scavengers, Trespassers, Adventurers, Loners, Killers, Explorers and Robbers.

Apart from a really bad hashtag to try and use, [STALKER](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S.T.A.L.K.E.R.) is a first-person shooter survival horror RPG that was first released in 2007 for PC.

Basically, it's a game about being a post-apocalyptic treasure hunter in a radioative post-soviet wonderland. I ended up getting the game for my birthday circa 2007, and must have dumped a thousand hours into the STALKER trilogy through the following decade.

Fast forward to today, and I'm about to get my fix back on - STALKER 2 is almost here! After playing the demo at PAX West, I think it's safe to say that the wait will be worth it.

I also got to shoot with the GSC crew at the STALKER 2 booth! I had a really hard time not completely fanboying it up!

![The classic look of pure unadulterated satisfaction](GWjndYIWwAAfzq2.jpg)

## Concept & Design
Coming right off another big project, I decided that my time would be better spent focusing on prop making versus fabric projects. This meant that the "Sunrise Suit" that's common with other STALKER cosplayers was off the table for me.

![The most iconic STALKER outfits](image-8.png)

I opted instead to base my build off of a Gorka (Горка) K2 combat suit, which I had recently acquired for... unrelated purposes. This offered a good base to accessorize on top of. The nice part about STALKER cosplays is that there's no specific character you have to kit up as, so, I let my gut guide me on that. I wanted to build a STALKER that would embody how I imagined my character, myself, in the Zone.

![Faction Patches](image-16.png)

There are several factions in the Zone, and I rotated between repping the Loners, Freedom, and the Monolith (glory to the rock). I ended up running into some other Loners and some Mercenaries at PAX.

### The Battle Rig
In an attempt to stick with the Soviet-surplus '90s vibe of the gear, I actually attempted to get a SMERSH (СМЕРЧ) rig to build the rest of my costume off of. 

![SMERSH](image-9.png)

Unfortunately, the American company I ordered through wasn't able to deliver on time, so I ended up going with an airsoft knock-off model in kind of a weirdo dingy camo pattern called "Ruin".

![After minor accessorizing](image-10.png) ![Test drive](image-11.png)

This actually ended up working out because the knock-off model incorrectly has the stuff-sack on the upper back instead of the lower back - but this oversight allowed me to hook up a WWI German gas mask cannister. The original plan for this was to be an "anomaly" container with lights and a plexiglass window, but, I ran out of time. Perhaps a future improvement?

The other mod I ended up needing to do was ripping out the girth straps around the natural waist and lower hips. I'm, uh, less malnourished than whoever this was made for. I replaced the webbing with stuff 1" and 1.5" nylon from a US manufacturer, and replaced the plastic buckles with metal cobra buckles. A fate that will probably happen to the real SMERSH when it shows up.

I also think the camo ended up working out pretty well, and did a good job being distinct from my two-tone green suit.

### The Kit
Apart from the fabrics, there was exactly one objective I had when designing this costume - I wanted to make a Gauss Rifle. They say the real Gauss Rifle was the friends you made along the way, and I have to say for secondary objectives I am really happy with how the rest of the kit came out.

![A Stalker is always prepared...](image-20.png)

> I will eventually get around to full build logs of each of these props. Subscribe to one of my profiles to get updated!

#### Echo Detector
![Reference](image-14.png)

![Detector Internals](image-15.png) ![Completed Detector](image-12.png)

This thing was an absolute blast to work on. In the video game this little device helps the player detect anomalies in their search of artifacts. How this prop works though is there is an Arduino inside which runs a program that produces a flash and a beep based on local Bluetooth Low Energy signals.

The end result was an interactive prop that I was able to comb the convention floor with! It was a real head turner and conversation starter!

For the decals, I was able to use Google Gemini to take the screenshot from the game and export to text (and translation into Ukrainian), which I then used in combination with GIMP and Inkscape to create my own custom decals. Those were then printed on waterslide sheets.

![GIMP to the Rescue!](<Screenshot 2024-08-26 092050.png>)

Huge shout out to [DoctorZer0](https://www.printables.com/model/823279-stalker-echo-detector-printable-model) for creating such an awesome model, providing the inspiration for the Arduino code, and the internals so I could reverse engineer and build my own.

In a later post I will be releasing the code fork, along with a parameter that will allow users to adjust the sensitivity, as there's a lot of interference in a convention. I also needed to modify the mesh of the detector to fit my switches and LEDs - those will go to a remix on Printables.

#### Compass Artifact
![The Compass Artifact](image-18.png) ![In-Game](image-17.png)

The Compass is a rare artifact that is able to locate gaps in anomaly fields.

This was printed in several pieces - two domes that screwed together, an internal carriage system for holding the electronics, and then a bunch of crystalline pieces that thread into the domes (which I printed on my resin printer for a clear effect).

The Compass was a real head turner, however one of the crystals broke off during handling. I actually printed off spare crystals before the convention, but, I think more than two props is too many, and I found myself juggling on Day 1, so I ended up rotating between it and the Echo Detector.

Thanks to [@JakubKoci](https://www.printables.com/model/29537-compass-artifact) for the awesome model!


#### Item 62 Gauss Rifle




#### Cossacks Vodka
![Decals Cut...](image-22.png)![Decals Applied!](image-23.png)

Though a bit tricky, these "Cossacks Vodka" bottles were a big hit with fans of the game. I wanted to test drive the waterslide decals before putting them on anything I couldn't scrub. Luckily I only needed one test drive and the "bad" one looked pretty good!

#### Snork Trophy

#### Off the Shelf Gear
![fgsfds](image-21.png)

There was some off the shelf gear I tossed into this build as well:
* [The surprisingly popular fake cigarette](https://amzn.to/3z88O1o)
* Oakley Combat Boots
* Mestel SGE 400/3 Gas Mask (if you guys go the real gas mask route, get one with a diaphragm if you're going to wear it)
* Mira Drop-Leg Gas Mask Pouch
* Sordin Pro-X Neckband EarPro


## Ready for the Zone
![First Day at PAX West](image-2.png) ![The only "straight on" shot I managed to get, whoops!](image-6.png)

Commit message:

test drive convert png to webp

content/post/2024-stalker-cosplay/index.md, after:

---
title: STALKER // PAX West 2024
description: "In celebration of STALKER 2 finally releasing! Or, being close to release at least."
slug: stalker-cosplay
date: 2024-09-05T22:02:08.183Z
image: cover.webp
tags:
    - stalker
    - cosplay
    - overview
    - loadout
categories:
    - cosplay
---
## Intro
I had a blast making this costume; it wasn't the most technical project, but it was really fulfilling on a personal level and got to bring one of my characters to life.

I plan on doing individual logs about the kit props and their creation process. I'm in the process of editing the build videos since everything came together kind of last minute, but I didn't want to hold off on making this post!

### What is "STALKER"?
![STALKER: Call of Pripyat, Promotional Art (©GSC Game World)](image.webp)

> The name "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." is a backronym for Scavengers, Trespassers, Adventurers, Loners, Killers, Explorers and Robbers.

Apart from a really bad hashtag to try and use, [STALKER](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S.T.A.L.K.E.R.) is a first-person shooter survival horror RPG that was first released in 2007 for PC.

Basically, it's a game about being a post-apocalyptic treasure hunter in a radioative post-soviet wonderland. I ended up getting the game for my birthday circa 2007, and must have dumped a thousand hours into the STALKER trilogy through the following decade.

Fast forward to today, and I'm about to get my fix back on - STALKER 2 is almost here! After playing the demo at PAX West, I think it's safe to say that the wait will be worth it.

I also got to shoot with the GSC crew at the STALKER 2 booth! I had a really hard time not completely fanboying it up!

![The classic look of pure unadulterated satisfaction](GWjndYIWwAAfzq2.webp)

## Concept & Design
Coming right off another big project, I decided that my time would be better spent focusing on prop making versus fabric projects. This meant that the "Sunrise Suit" that's common with other STALKER cosplayers was off the table for me.

![The most iconic STALKER outfits](image-8.webp)

I opted instead to base my build off of a Gorka (Горка) K2 combat suit, which I had recently acquired for... unrelated purposes. This offered a good base to accessorize on top of. The nice part about STALKER cosplays is that there's no specific character you have to kit up as, so, I let my gut guide me on that. I wanted to build a STALKER that would embody how I imagined my character, myself, in the Zone.

![Faction Patches](image-16.webp)

There are several factions in the Zone, and I rotated between repping the Loners, Freedom, and the Monolith (glory to the rock). I ended up running into some other Loners and some Mercenaries at PAX.

### The Battle Rig
In an attempt to stick with the Soviet-surplus '90s vibe of the gear, I actually attempted to get a SMERSH (СМЕРЧ) rig to build the rest of my costume off of. 

![SMERSH](image-9.webp)

Unfortunately, the American company I ordered through wasn't able to deliver on time, so I ended up going with an airsoft knock-off model in kind of a weirdo dingy camo pattern called "Ruin".

![After minor accessorizing](image-10.webp) ![Test drive](image-11.webp)

This actually ended up working out because the knock-off model incorrectly has the stuff-sack on the upper back instead of the lower back - but this oversight allowed me to hook up a WWI German gas mask cannister. The original plan for this was to be an "anomaly" container with lights and a plexiglass window, but, I ran out of time. Perhaps a future improvement?

The other mod I ended up needing to do was ripping out the girth straps around the natural waist and lower hips. I'm, uh, less malnourished than whoever this was made for. I replaced the webbing with stuff 1" and 1.5" nylon from a US manufacturer, and replaced the plastic buckles with metal cobra buckles. A fate that will probably happen to the real SMERSH when it shows up.

I also think the camo ended up working out pretty well, and did a good job being distinct from my two-tone green suit.

### The Kit
Apart from the fabrics, there was exactly one objective I had when designing this costume - I wanted to make a Gauss Rifle. They say the real Gauss Rifle was the friends you made along the way, and I have to say for secondary objectives I am really happy with how the rest of the kit came out.

![A Stalker is always prepared...](image-20.webp)

> I will eventually get around to full build logs of each of these props. Subscribe to one of my profiles to get updated!

#### Echo Detector
![Reference](image-14.webp)

![Detector Internals](image-15.webp) ![Completed Detector](image-12.webp)

This thing was an absolute blast to work on. In the video game this little device helps the player detect anomalies in their search of artifacts. How this prop works though is there is an Arduino inside which runs a program that produces a flash and a beep based on local Bluetooth Low Energy signals.

The end result was an interactive prop that I was able to comb the convention floor with! It was a real head turner and conversation starter!

For the decals, I was able to use Google Gemini to take the screenshot from the game and export to text (and translation into Ukrainian), which I then used in combination with GIMP and Inkscape to create my own custom decals. Those were then printed on waterslide sheets.

![GIMP to the Rescue!](<Screenshot 2024-08-26 092050.webp>)

Huge shout out to [DoctorZer0](https://www.printables.com/model/823279-stalker-echo-detector-printable-model) for creating such an awesome model, providing the inspiration for the Arduino code, and the internals so I could reverse engineer and build my own.

In a later post I will be releasing the code fork, along with a parameter that will allow users to adjust the sensitivity, as there's a lot of interference in a convention. I also needed to modify the mesh of the detector to fit my switches and LEDs - those will go to a remix on Printables.

#### Compass Artifact
![The Compass Artifact](image-18.webp) ![In-Game](image-17.webp)

The Compass is a rare artifact that is able to locate gaps in anomaly fields.

This was printed in several pieces - two domes that screwed together, an internal carriage system for holding the electronics, and then a bunch of crystalline pieces that thread into the domes (which I printed on my resin printer for a clear effect). I used [Bambu Lab PLA Galaxy](https://us.store.bambulab.com/collections/bambu-lab-3d-printer-filament/products/pla-galaxy?variant=41834260103304) for the outer shell, and opted to not post-process it since my printer was absolutely dialed in for that print.

The Compass was a real head turner, however one of the crystals broke off during handling. I actually printed off spare crystals before the convention, but, I think more than two props is too many, and I found myself juggling on Day 1, so I ended up rotating between it and the Echo Detector.

Thanks to [@JakubKoci](https://www.printables.com/model/29537-compass-artifact) for the awesome model!


#### Item 62 Gauss Rifle
![Gauss Rifle Reference Image](image-19.webp)

![Completed Gauss Rifle](image-25.webp)

Of all the props I've done for any costume, this is one of my favorites. First off, 


#### Cossacks Vodka
![Decals Cut...](image-22.webp)![Decals Applied!](image-23.webp)

Though a bit tricky, these "Cossacks Vodka" bottles were a big hit with fans of the game. I wanted to test drive the waterslide decals before putting them on anything I couldn't scrub. Luckily I only needed one test drive and the "bad" one looked pretty good!

#### Snork Trophy

#### Off the Shelf Gear
![fgsfds](image-21.webp)

There was some off the shelf gear I tossed into this build as well:
* [The surprisingly popular fake cigarette](https://amzn.to/3z88O1o)
* Oakley Combat Boots
* Mestel SGE 400/3 Gas Mask (if you guys go the real gas mask route, get one with a diaphragm if you're going to wear it)
* Mira Drop-Leg Gas Mask Pouch
* Sordin Pro-X Neckband EarPro


## Ready for the Zone
![First Day at PAX West](image-2.webp) ![The only "straight on" shot I managed to get, whoops!](image-6.webp)
